AI coding frameworks keep multiplying
and every one of them claims to be the
best way to build with agents. But the
best way to build with agents doesn't
entirely depend on the framework you
pick. There are other factors people
forget to evaluate and then they get
frustrated when the framework doesn't
fit their project. But that's not the
framework's problem. That's a selection
problem. Each framework works well for
the use case it was designed for and
there's no oneizefits-all here. Now, our
team has previously covered AI coding
frameworks on the channel, but recently
we came across one that's been gaining a
lot of traction lately. The reason we're
making a video on this is not because
it's another best framework that is
going to cause you to leave the other
ones. It's because when we tested it, we
found it to be genuinely different and
it fits use cases that these frameworks
don't. We've covered multiple frameworks
in previous videos like BMAD and
Superpowers. Picking the wrong one means
you're either overengineering or
underpreparing. Today we're going over
this framework called GSD, which is
short for get done. And you'll
understand why. By the end of this
video, you'll understand where to use
which framework. Starting with the first
one, which is GSD. You use GSD where you
aren't really sure what to build and you
don't want to pre-plan everything
because the requirements might change in
the future. Now, this doesn't mean that
you don't know what to build at all. It
means that the product you want requires
a lot of experimentation in each step.
This is great if you want to quickly
build out MVPs for experimental projects
as quickly as possible. With GSD, it
does ask you about a broader scope, but
unlike the BMAD method, it doesn't
really lock you in. Using the initial
scope, it plans each implementation step
by step. This means that you're not
locked into the later phases because
they have not been pre-planned by the
system in extensive detail. So, if
you're building a custom solution that
hasn't really been built before, it
would be better if you go ahead with
GST. Let's say if you were building an
on-screen interview assistant like
Cluey, you would need to figure out a
lot of things as to how the user
experience would look like or how to
make sure that all screen sharing
platforms don't detect it during screen
sharing. A lot of things might need
experimentation with no way to determine
them before the planning. BMAD on the
other hand takes the opposite approach.
It's a step-by-step framework that
creates thorough documentation for each
phase before implementing anything. You
need to be sure about what you're
building at the very start and it's not
like it messes up. It has a whole
research department as a module where
the creator of BMAD has poured in all
the context about these different roles
such as a business analyst and design
thinker that make sure that the product
you want to make is thought about from
all angles but it's all pre-loaded and
based on that you make your PRD and
architecture documents and then based on
those you get sharded tasks that the
implementation team just needs to
follow. When we made our video on the
BMAD system, we praised it because of
how locked up it was. The system is so
well built in the prompts that it
doesn't really let the agent deviate
from the tasks. But over an extended
period of usage, we've noticed that when
you actually need a change in the
requirements, that is when the system
becomes unstable because even the best
of the models actually miss little
details when changing the requirements.
Another complaint that people mention is
that it takes too much time to plan out
everything before any implementation
actually starts. But that's because it
shouldn't be used for those sorts of
projects. You should be using it when
you're absolutely sure of the
requirements and just want the system
built without any loopholes in it
because all the specs that it makes are
heavily interlin or when you want to
build conventional systems such as a
custom CRM solution for a client or your
own custom community platform. Now,
superpowers is based on TDD and the
whole point of the ideology is that you
know what you are building. TDD is
important where the cost of an edge case
is too high to miss and this cost
doesn't include a simple stripe
integration with an Nex.js app. But
let's say something like an agentic
platform where AI agents take actions on
behalf of your users and a wrong action
can't be undone and is too costly. In
terms of usability, it's like GSD where
the planning is done feature by feature
with just an outline of what the project
needs to be. But since tests are
generated first, it doesn't really give
you that room to experiment with
different things and isn't ideal for
projects where the planning is done
beforehand. But another thing that you
can do is that if the project lies in
both domains is that you can implement a
version of the project with GSD where
the main functionality is completed and
then you can continue the rest of the
app by onboarding superpowers on the
app. We do have separate videos on both
superpowers and the BMAD method and they
would be linked down in the description
below if you want to explore these in
more detail. GSD was also built with
preventing context rot in mind by using
sub aents spawning separate processes
for isolated tasks keeping the main
agents context clean so that it can
focus on what actually matters without
drifting. Majority of the AI coding
agents now support sub aents. So it
doesn't matter if you use claude code
with this or not. But Claude also
received another update recently, the
new Opus 4.6 with a 1 million context
window. So a lot of techniques that
we've taught on this channel to actively
manage your context don't really matter
that much anymore. So to install it,
you're going to copy the command and
paste it in the project folder where you
are working. Then select which agent you
want to install it for. In my case, it
was Claude, so I installed it for that.
You then have to choose what should be
the scope of the installation. I prefer
project level because each project may
use a different framework and this keeps
the configuration scoped to the one
chosen for this project. Since we were
using Nex.js for building, we installed
it in our newly initialized project. And
once installed, the GSD framework should
show up in your.claude folder in the
form of agents, commands, and hooks. If
you're not using claude, they will be
stored in the aagent folder in the root
of the project. It has multiple agents
intended for different specific tasks.
But unlike normal markdown based
prompts, everything is structured in XML
format and this is done on purpose.
Cloud models are known to work better
with XML formatted instructions since it
lets them parse the structure more
easily. So it's a performance
optimization towards whatever agent that
you're using. But before we move
forwards, let's have a word from our
sponsor, GenSpark. Most people are
currently stuck juggling multiple AI
subscriptions, paying individual fees
for Chat, GPT, Claude, and various media
tools. Genpark is an all-in-one AI
workspace that hit $200 million ARR in
just 11 months by consolidating
everything into a single subscription.
It uses a super agent system to choose
the best model for any task. It handles
your entire workflow from building AI
slides and automating AI sheets to
generating AI media and even making real
world phone calls with the call forme
feature. You can even turn your research
into AI pods to listen to on the go.
Plus, use Speakly to turn a 15-minute
recording into 3,000 words of perfect
text instantly. The wildest part, Gen
Spark offers unlimited AI chat and image
features throughout 2026. Nano Banana 2,
GPT Image, Flux, Seedream, Gemini 3.1
Pro, GPT 5.2, Claude Opus 4.6, and more
top models are all included with
unlimited access. Hit the link in the
pinned comment to start building with
Gen Spark. To [snorts] start using GST,
you're going to use this new project
command. By running this command, the
agent started working according to the
initialization prompt and started with
exploring the codebase first. Since I
had initialized the NexJS app already,
it detected that there was code present
and asked if it should explore the
existing codebase first. We told it to
skip the mapping to avoid wasting time.
If you were working on an existing
project, it would be better to ask it to
map the codebase first, but since it
contained the blank template, I skipped
it. After that, it will ask you to tell
it the app idea you want to work on.
After which, it asks a lot of questions
regarding the target audience of your
app, its features, the scope of the
project, and more. But the question
answer session GSD conducts is
noticeably different from that of the
superpowers. Superpowers try to extract
edge cases from you during this phase.
GSD does not, and it focuses more on
understanding what to build, not stress
testing how it might break. Once it
gathers enough information from the
session, it creates the project.md
inside the dotplanning folder which
contains the description out of scope
items, context constraints, and key
decisions all deduced from the
questioning. But here's where the
context rot prevention shows up in
practice. It keeps project.md
deliberately short and focused so the
agents wouldn't deviate from the main
aims by getting buried in documentation.
It tracks all the work through git, but
it doesn't use a straightforward git
commit. It runs a script underneath that
performs checks before committing,
ensuring everything is up to the
standards before actually using git to
commit. Once planning was done, GSD
moved to the research phase. It spawns
multiple agents researching different
aspects of the app in parallel, all
running in the background. After the
research completes, the research
synthesizer agent kicks in. Since all
these agents are tuned to use
appropriate models for the tasks, the
synthesizer agent uses the sonnet model,
not the heavier opus. GSD has a proper
reference mapping each sub aent to the
right model based on the weight of work
it handles so that it doesn't waste
extra efforts. It condenses the research
findings and also flagged potential
issues. Things to watch out for that
could hinder the work long-term. After
the research is synthesized, the
requirement stage begins. It asks you
targeted questions about the MVP,
identifying which features are truly
essential for version one. Because GSD
is focused on fast delivery, it makes
sure V1 contains only what is necessary.
After it confirms the MVP with you, it
then generates the road map structure
which you have to approve. And your
approval marks the project
initialization as complete. Also, if you
are enjoying our content, consider
pressing the hype button because it
helps us create more content like this
and reach out to more people. Now
[snorts] that the initialization phase
is over, the next step is to implement
the plan. In the previous phase, it had
broken the project down into four phases
based on the requirement. It will give
you two ways to work. either skip
discussions or proceed with discussions.
Discussion for this framework means
questioning sessions with the agent
where it ensures it understands the plan
properly. We chose to discuss first so
that we can clarify the requirements as
much as we can. But you can choose to
skip discussions if you think the
previous questioning session was enough
for it to build the app. Once the
discussion session is over, it creates a
context.md file in the phases folder
inside the planning folder. This file
contains all the details of what we have
discussed and map the phase we just
talked about with the agent. But true to
GSD's philosophy, this file is also
concise in length so that Claude can
stay focused on what actually matters.
Next, you begin the planning of phase
one. The planning phase starts with the
research based on the context.md file it
just created using a dedicated research
agent with the set model exploring
different aspects. But we thought it
would use context 7 or actually look up
against the docs properly. Instead, it
was using web search with the year 2025
in the search keywords, which it
shouldn't have been doing. It would have
been more controlled if we had connected
context 7 MCP so that its research was
better grounded. So, when you are using,
make sure to connect with such MCP for
better grounding. It created a
research.md file and documented all of
its research including the confidence
level for its research, which indicated
how trustworthy are its sources. After
the research, it created a plan. These
plans listed in detail the dependencies
of each phase and all the requirements
with proper IDs. But here's the thing.
This is where GSD is different because
instead of just writing the plan one way
like others do, it actually
cross-verifies the plan across multiple
dimensions and validates whether the
plan is actually implementable and
aligned with the goals. It uses
dedicated planning and verifying plan
agents where the planning agent creates
the plans and the verifier keeps
checking them sending warnings back. So
it basically performs the adversarial
planning on its own without us having to
control any of that manually. Once the
plan was final and all the steps had
passed, it committed and broke the plan
down into two waves. It actually breaks
down into as many waves as required and
parallelizes those that are independent
so that sub agents can handle them in
parallel. It started implementing the
project waves using the dedicated agent
to carry out the plan it created. Once
it is finished, it verifies the
checkpoint using proper playright
testing underneath, creating scripts,
deleting them after using to clean the
folder, and performing multiple
automated tasks under the hood. It then
gave us a summary of what was built and
provided instructions on how to verify
it for ourselves. The first iteration
builds the app that is just a
placeholder with all the initial
elements visible to show how the app
would actually look. Further iterations
will build one aspect of the app at a
time, leading to a complete app at the
end of the cycle. The entire iteration
used 138,000 tokens, which was actually
not much given a 1 million token context
window. But with an agent with a 200,000
context window, it would signal that
it's time to compact. But since this
relies on documentation of phases, even
if we clear the context, the agents
would know where to start. When we
approved the work, it ran multiple tests
and marked wave 2 as complete as well.
After that, it spawned the GSD verifier
again and cross-cheed whether the
implementation actually matched the
initial goal. Once verified, it marked
phase one as complete, including the
verifications, and prompted us to
proceed to the next phase of the
application. Now, once we ran the app
through all of the phases, the
previously placeholder features were all
functional and working as intended. GST
works well when you're working on a
large-scale application with multiple
features, but it's overkill if the app
you're building is much simpler and
doesn't need the heavy lifting. For
simpler apps, Claude or any other agent
on its own is sufficient and doesn't
need this thorough planning. However, if
you want controlled execution with
proper planning without wasting too much
effort on this phase, you should
definitely go for GSD. Now, this is one
framework, but often times there are use
cases where the existing ones don't hold
up and you need to build one of your
own. For that, you need to know certain
principles before actually building your
own. We covered those principles in a
previous video that would help you build
better workflows. You might end up
seeing that video on the end screen, so
you can just click on it instead of
looking it up. [snorts] That brings us
to the end of this video. If you'd like
to support the channel and help us keep
making videos like this, you can do so
by joining AIAS Pro. As always, thank
you for watching and I'll see you in the
next one.